Schwinn 270 Recumbent Bike Review 
270-recumbent-bikeThe recumbent bike may have a reputation for providing an easy workout, but in reality, these bikes can be just as challenging as a traditional model. But it can be hard to let go of a large chunk of your hard-earned cash on an expensive exercise bike, especially if you aren’t sure the style of bike you’re interested in can provide the type of workout results you so desperately need. Because of this, you’ll want to do a little research on the different models available in your price range, in order to find the best recumbent bike.  Fortunately, the 270 recumbent bike by Schwinn is a model that’s both high in quality and low in price.

This is a model that’s literally packed with a ton of features that can make your workout something to look forward to. If you’re determined to get fit, this is the model you need because it can help you to remain on track and will continue to challenge you on a daily basis. Designed for the novice or the seasoned cyclist, this is a recumbent that has a lot to offer and all for a reasonable price.

Schwinn Recumbent Exercise Bike Overview
Over the years, Schwinn has become a household name due to the wide success of their traditional bikes. And because of the ton of positive feedback the 270 has received from consumers, it’s pretty telling that they’ve done it again with this model and produced an exercise bike that can really handle rough daily use while providing the user with the type of fitness results they’re looking for.

Considered one of the top recumbent bikes on the market, this model by Schwinn is suitable for any fitness level. This bike is loaded with some great features including twenty-nine programmed workouts, mobile device connectivity, the ability to download your workout data, and twenty-five resistance levels.

Measuring in with a height just under fifty inches and a length of sixty-four inches, this bike weighs in at an impressive eighty-six pounds.

schwinn-270It also comes with a couple of dual track LCD window systems that allow the user to monitor up to thirteen different displays for workout feedback, Schwinn goal tracking and data export, which allows the user to closely monitor their fitness goals, and a charging USB port. Users can also sync their workout with the popular fitness app MYFitnessPal.  The model comes with heart rate model via handlebar grips, water bottle holder and transport wheels for easy mobility.

Users will enjoy the two large blue backlit LCD screens, twelve profile programs each with four mountain rides, four fun rides and four challenges. The bike also comes with a total of nine heart rate programs each with custom setting options. There is also a recovery test program which measures how quickly the heart rate recovers. Other information displayed includes the rider’s time, speed, level and distance.

Schwinn provides a two year mechanical warranty, a ten year frame warranty, ninety day labor warranty and a one year electrical warranty.

If you don’t have much experience with bike assembly, assembling the 270 can take you a couple of hours due to the large amount of small parts. Fortunately, Schwinn provides a step by step, fully illustrated user’s manual that’s easy to follow.

This model is equipped with everything you’ll need for a quick, challenging workout. It also keeps you connected to the outside world with Bluetooth connectivity and media shelf. The console is hands down one of the best around and features the ability to download exercise data and many workouts. In comparison, it’s a big step up from the Nautilus R614 recumbent, which doesn’t come with nearly as many bells and whistles.

Schwinn Recumbent Pros and Cons
schwinn-270-recumbent-bikePros: Consumers felt that the installation process, while lengthy, was pretty smooth with no faulty or missing parts. The electronics run through the uprights and fit together using press fit connectors for extra stability.  You can set up four different users by name, which allows you to record and track progress and accomplishments. Another cool feature is the automatic shutoff, which turns the bike off once you’ve completed a workout. In order to switch resistance levels, simply push the up or down button. This model is also very quiet running which allows you to enjoy your favorite shows as you get in a work out. The seat itself is very comfortable and can be easily adjusted using the single adjustment lever, which allows the seat to slide up or down along the track. The cool down fan features three speeds and provides a gentle breeze. Users loved the ability to mount their kindle, iPad or MP3 player right on the bike, without the need of an additional accessory. The dual display screens allow the user to watch movies on their kindle while still monitoring their workout progress. Based on the amount of features included, the pricing for the 270 is very reasonable.

Cons: Assembly can be a chaotic process even with the easy to follow instructions, if you’ve never assembled a bike or exercise bike before. While the fan is a big bonus for some users, others complained that even set at the highest level it only provides a small breeze. Consumers have the option of monitoring their heart rate through the hand grips or the chest strap, unfortunately, the chest strap is sold separately. Some users had complaints regarding the brightness of the LCD display, especially in a darker room. Unfortunately, there is no way to adjust the brightness level. Other users mentioned that charging their devices was slow going with the USB cable.

270 Conclusion and Rating
Consumers who purchased Schwinn 270 Recumbent Bike gave it an impressive rating of five out of five stars for the wide range of resistance levels, heart rate monitor, programmed workouts and overall quality. A model that can truly put your fitness level to the test, you’ll enjoy the wide range of workouts available and how this bike will continue to challenge you in order to help you reach your fitness goals.

Stamina Elite Total Body Recumbent Exercise Bike Review 
stamina-elite-total-bodyThe Elite total body recumbent exercise bike by Stamina is one of the few models of exercise recumbent bikes that allows you to work out your upper body while exercising the legs. It features moving arms located at the front of the bike that allow the user to pedal with their hands to increase their calorie burn and benefit from toned arms. This style of bike is perfect for burning more calories and getting in a better workout than what you can expect from a traditional upright exercise bike that solely focuses on a lower body workout.

Elite Total Body Recumbent Rundown
This model features a solid steel frame that’s equipped with wider stabilizer bars designed to keep the rider stable as they work both the upper and lower body. Users can now work out their core, legs and arms, all without serious impact to the joints. Designed for a wide variety of fitness levels, this model supports efficient total body workouts. This bike is designed for fitness enthusiasts with goals to tone muscle, raise metabolism and build more muscle strength and definition. It offers smoother low impact motions which is why it’s also recommended for patients in physical therapy.

Working out on this model is surprisingly comfortable. For the lower and upper body it offers eight different levels of smooth and quiet running magnetic resistance. The arm rails are adjustable and added for increased stability and the backrest is heavily cushioned for much-need lumbar support.

This is a bike that’s considered a multipurpose trainer that can whip anyone into shape. The easy access frame is the perfect choice for users who have limited mobility and the light to moderate resistance levels are perfect for beginners, while harder resistance levels work to challenge advanced riders. On this model you’ll get a workout designed to burn calories, increase stamina and give you head to toe improved muscle toning. The bike can adjust to fit riders five feet and taller and it features an impressive weight capacity of two hundred and fifty pounds.

The bike utilizes a dual pedal design that isn’t very common among other recumbent models. While it’s slightly more expensive than the standard recumbent, the special design makes it an appealing choice for any consumer looking for a machine that can provide a total body workout.

Stamina Pros and Cons
stamina-elite-total-body-recumbent-exercise-bikePros: This model features the traditional foot pedals in addition to innovatively designed hand pedals, a combination that can’t be found on any other recumbent on the market. While the foot pedals are said to deliver a great cardiovascular workout and impressive lower body toning, the hand pedals work to target muscles in the back, shoulders and arms, which provides additional calorie burning potential. The dual pedal design makes this model a good choice for anyone, but especially for those individuals who are in need of a way to get a low impact lower and upper body workout. Keep in mind that the mechanical resistance only works to engage one set of pedals at a time, this means, if you’re working with the foot pedals you won’t get resistance with the hand pedals.

The eight levels of resistance offer a challenging workout that allows you to slowly increase the intensity of your workout as your body progresses and your stamina increases. You can change the resistance levels using the turn dial which is conveniently located at the top of the pedal assembly. Cranking up the resistance levels mid-workout is smooth, instant and easy, unlike other models on the market that tend to lose resistance temporarily during this time.

The seat on this bike is lever adjusted and is packed with plenty of cushioning for a totally comfortable ride. The seatback angle is fully adjustable which works to improve comfort and seat fit. This feature is important if more than one member of your household will be using this bike.

Cons: Unfortunately, this model does not come with any pre-programmed workouts or automated resistance capabilities. The lack of which sets this bike back from other popular models that feature an extensive amount of workout programs and features. The Nautilus R614 Recumbent Bike is one model that offers the type of pre-programmed workouts this model does not and it’s one that comes highly recommended by consumers and is also available at a comparable price. The bike’s warranty also leaves something to be desired when you compare it to other popular models of recumbents on the market. This model features a five year frame warranty and a one year warranty on all parts and does not cover labor at all. While the terms of these warranties are decent, the definitely fall behind the types of warranties other top recumbent bike manufacturers offer.

While this bike does monitor the amount of time you work out, the distance travelled, current speed, heart rate and calories burned in real-time, the bike’s display screen is only able to show one statistic at a time, which is done by pushing a button on the console multiple times until you find the feature you’re looking for. Most models in this price range offer larger displays that have the ability to show eight or even ten different statistics continuously and at the same time. This type of convenience is lacking on the Elite and it’s a common complaint among consumers.

Elite Conclusion and Rating
With Stamina Elite Total Body Recumbent Exercise Bike, it’s definitely a trade-off of sorts. With other bikes in this price range you can enjoy more bells and whistles, fancier display screens and even built-in speakers, but by these standards the Elite comes off as very basic. However, with this recumbent you do get a total upper and lower body workout, an important feature that all other models are lacking. It is ultimately up to the consumer to choose whether they want an exercise bike with all the bells and whistles or one that can provide impressive results for both the upper and lower body. Consumers who purchased this bike gave it a rating of four out of five stars for the upper body workout option, comfortable ride, innovative design and overall quality.
